Learning Path: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/118

Video Link: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/536/video/459735


## Artificial Intelligence /= Machine Learning

### Artificial Intelligence is the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally requiring human intelligence.

### Machine Learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence which gives the computer the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.

### Machine Learning Models: 
- Supervised Learning
- Unsupervised Learning

Supervised Learning implies the data is already labeled.

Unsupervised Learning implies the data is not labeled.

### Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning which uses neural networks to model and understand complex patterns in data. Can use labeled and unlabeled data. 

### Generative AI is a subset of Deep Learning which uses neural networks to generate new data.

### Large Language Models (LLMs) are also a subset of Deep Learning which use neural networks to generate human-like text.

#### Discriminative Models:
- Used to classify or predict
- Typically trained on a dataset of labeled data
- Learns the relationship between the features of the data points and the labels

#### Generative Models:
- Generates new data that is similar to data it was trained on
- Understands distribution of data and how likely a given example 
- Predicts next word in a sequence

#### Not GenAI when y is:
- Number
- Discrete
- Class
- Probability

#### Is GenAI when y is:
- Natural Language 
- Image 
- Audio
- Video

### What is GenerativeAI?
- GenAI is a type of Artificial Intelligence that creates new content based on what is has learned from existing content.
- The process of learning from existing content is called training and results in the creation of a statistical model.
- When given a prompt, GenAI uses this statistical model to predict what an expected response might be-and this generates new content.

### How it works:
#### Pretraining:
- Large amount of Data
- Billions of Parameters
- Unsupervised Learning

### Hallucinations:
Are words or phrases that are generated by the model that are often nonsensical or grammatically incorrect.

- The model is not trained on enough data
- The model is trained on noisy or dirty data
- The model is not given enough content
- The model is not given enough constraints

### Prompt Design:
The quality of the input determines the quality of the output.

### Model Types
- Text to Text (Generation, Classification, Summarization, Translation, (Re)Search, Extraction, Clustering, Content editing/ rewriting)
- Text to Image (Image Generation, Image Editing)
- Text to Video, Text to 3D (Video Generation, Video Editing, Game Assets)
- Text to Task (Software Agents, Virtual Assistants, Automation)

### Foundation Model
- A model that has been trained on a large amount of data and has been fine-tuned to a specific task.

### Model Garden: Vertex AI Foundation Models
#### Language:
- PaLM API for Chat
- PaLM API for Text
- BERT

#### Vision:
- Embeddings extractor
- Stable Diffusion v1-5 (Generating High Quality Images)
- BLIP image captioning 
- BLIP VQA
- CLIP
- OWL-ViT
- ViT GPT2


### Vertex AI Studio
- Vertex AI is a suite of AI services that makes it easy to build, train, and deploy ML/ GenAI models.

#### Vertex AI
- Vertex AI Search and Conversation creates Generative AI Apps with little or no coding and no prior machine learning experience

#### PaLM API and MakerSuite
- PaLM API is a large language model that can be used to create chatbots, generate text, and answer questions.
- MakerSuite is a set of tools that can be used to create Generative AI apps.


[Link to All Readings: Introduction to Generative AI](documents\All Readings - Introduction to Generative AI.pdf)

TODO:

My Favorites:


My Least Favorites:
- https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/21/podcasts/hard-fork-generative-artificial-intelligence.html? (I dont like podcasts on AI in general due to the fact that they are often not very technical and sometimes the questions are extremely not important or misinformed by an expert's opinion which is based not on facts but on the opinion of the person speaking)

Neutral:
- https://blog.google/inside-google/googlers/ask-a-techspert/what-is-generative-ai/ (For a good overview of Generative AI without anything technical at all. I love the interview style questioning the article provides)
- https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers/what-is-generative-ai (Also a Good overview of Generative AI but answers basic questions on the Generative AI models themselves, however it is out of date in my opinion)